---
layout: post
title: Installing Android SDK Without Installing Android Studio
---

Obviously no, you don't need to install Android Studio to develop for Android.  Here, i will install the Android SDK and create an Android Virtual Device on a Fedora 29 system for demonstration.

## Prerequisites

You will need a Java 8 executable in your PATH as the `sdkmanager` tool is still not compatible with higher Java versions.  
Check with `java -version` like below.

   $ java -version
   java version "1.8.0_201"
   Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_201-b09)
   Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.201-b09, mixed mode)

More info can be found [here.](https://stackoverflow.com/q/47150410)

## Download Android SDK Command line tools

Near to the end of the [Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/) page, a section exists under the name of "Command line tools only", download the Linux tools.

## Setting up the environment

We will need to configure our environment variables like below;  
More info about these variables can be found [here.](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/variables)

    $ cat ~/.profile
    ...
    export ANDROID_SDK_ROOT=$HOME/.local/opt/android_sdk
    export ANDROID_HOME=$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT
    export ANDROID_AVD_HOME=$HOME/.local/opt/android_avd
    ...

Activate changes by running `source ~/.profile`

## Extracting the command line utilities

Extract the downloaded zip file to your `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT`

    unzip ~/Downloads/sdk-tools-linux-4333796.zip -d $ANDROID_SDK_ROOT

## Installing the SDK

    $ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/tools/bin/sdkmanager \
    'platforms;android-28' \
    'build-tools;28.0.3' \
    'system-images;android-28;google_apis;x86_64' \
    'platform-tools' \
    'ndk-bundle'

* `platforms;android-28`: The Android SDK for API 28 (Android 9).
* `build-tools;28.0.3`: Android SDK Build Tools.
* `system-images;android-28;google_apis;x86_64`: An Android 9 system image for Android Virtual Device.
* `platform-tools`: Tools such as `adb` and `fastboot` (Optional)
* `ndk-bundle`: Android Native Development Kit (Optional). If this is installed, an additional environment variable `ANDROID_NDK_ROOT`, which is typically on `$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/ndk-bundle`

### Searching Additional Utilities

To search a newer version of a package or installing a different package, you may search with the following command:

    $ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/tools/bin/sdkmanager --list | grep YOUR_QUERY

## Creating an Android Virtual Device

An AVD can be created with the following command;

    $ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/tools/bin/avdmanager create avd \
    -n MyAvd \
    -d 'Nexus 5X' \
    -k 'system-images;android-28;google_apis;x86_64'

* `-n`: Specifies the name of the AVD
* `-d`: Specifies the device definition. Find more definitions by running `$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/tools/bin/avdmanager list device`
* `-k`: Specifies the system image of the AVD. The system image must be installed to be used.

## Starting the AVD

An AVD can be started with the `emulator` utility.

    $ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/tools/emulator @MyAvd

or

    $ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/tools/emulator -avd MyAvd

## Troubleshooting

* "This User Doesn't Have Permissions to Use KVM" on Debian based systems when trying to run the AVD, there are two solutions;

    1. Installing `qemu-kvm`

           sudo apt install qemu-kvm
           sudo usermod -aG kvm USER_NAME

        Though, since the Android Emulator already packs its own qemu, we can avoid installing `qemu` *just* for the permission to use `/dev/kvm`

    2. Manually taking ownership of `/dev/kvm`

           sudo groupadd kvm
           sudo usermod -aG kvm USER_NAME
           # The following must be run each boot, create a service or something similar.
           sudo chgrp kvm /dev/kvm 
