---
layout: post
date: 2020-02-11 22:35:00 +0300
modified_date: 2020-02-11 22:35:00 +0300
title: Deploying a Docker Registry and Cache on Local Network
tags: docker cache registry linux
author: Ahmetcan Güvendiren
---

## Prerequisites

- Local network
- A machine that can run `docker` and `docker-compose`

In this guide i will be using a ubuntu 18.04 virtual machine on Virtualbox
connected to the local network via bridged adapter.

## Preperation

### Server installation

- Retrieve ubuntu server 18.04 image from [here](https://ubuntu.com/download/server).
- Create a new virtual machine in Virtualbox, set network adapter attached to bridged adapter.
- Install ubuntu server on this virtual machine.

### Networking

Install `avahi-daemon` via `apt`,
this ensures that your virtual machine will show up under the name of `hostname.local`,
for this machine, i set the hostname to `ubuntu`.
Any instructions below will use this hostname.

### Docker

Follow the
[official instructions](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/)
to install `docker` on the server.

**Optional:** Add user to `docker` group to use docker without root

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker your-user
```

### Miscellaneous Dependencies

Install `docker-compose` and `git` if not installed.

```bash
sudo apt install docker-compose git
```

## Deploying Docker Registry

- Clone [this repository](https://github.com/glacion/lan-docker-registry) from GitHub which includes the required configuration files.

  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/glacion/lan-docker-registry
  ```

- Go to the fetched directory

  ```bash
  cd lan-docker-registry
  ```

- Run the server

  ```bash
  docker-compose up -d
  ```

## Testing The Deployment

- Pull the busybox image from the local registry, this will trigger the registry to cache the busybox image.

  ```bash
  docker pull localhost/library/busybox
  ```

- Acquire the container id of the registry.

  ```bash
  {% raw %}$ docker ps --format "{{ .ID }} {{ .Image }}"{% endraw %}
  9e898cde9182 registry:2
  804903ce9f7e redis:alpine
  ```

  This shows that `9e898cde9182` is the container id of my registry container.

- Check for errors and warnings of the registry.

  ```bash
  docker logs 9e898cde9182 2>&1 | grep -E "level=(warning|error)"
  ```

  Currently, the only output to this should be a warning level log with message

  ```Text
  Registry does not implement RempositoryRemover. Will not be able to delete repos and tags
  ```

- Remove the busybox image

  ```bash
  docker image rm localhost/library/busybox
  ```

- Re-pull the busybox image

  ```bash
  docker pull localhost/library/busybox
  ```

- Recheck the logs, if there are no new entries, the registry is working correctly.

## Client Configuration

Clients to this registry must be configured to use the newly created server as proxy.

- In a **client machine**, edit docker daemon settings.  
  For a linux client, edit `/etc/docker/daemon.json`,  
  For a mac client, use Preferences -> Docker Engine

- The file should look like this:

  ```json
  {
    "registry-mirrors": [
        "http://ubuntu.local"
    ],
    "insecure-registries": [
        "ubuntu.local"
    ]
  }
  ```

Keep any other items as-is.
