---
permalink: network
hide: true
layout: default
date: 2020-05-31 18:38:00 +0300
---

* If K TCP sessions share same bottlenect link of bandwidth R, each should have average rate of ___  
    A) R  
    B) K/R  
    **C) R/K**  
    D) R*K  

* Which layer manages the reliable transfer of data from host to host (or end to end)?  
    A) Physical  
    B) Transport  
    C) Data link  
    **D) Network**  
    E) Internet

* fork() can be used to implement a concurrent server  
    A) False  
    **B) True** 

* Which layer 4 protocal is used for a Telnet connection?  
    A) IP  
    B) TCP/IP  
    **C) TCP**  
    D) UDP  

* Which program can be used to monitor and analyze the network traffic?  
    A) Chrome  
    **B) Sniffer**  
    C) Telnet  
    D) MySQL  
    E) FTP

* Window scale factor is needed if:  
    A) Connection is problematic  
    B) RTT is big  
    **C) Link capacity is small**  
    D) None of them  

* What would be the implication of a very big window size?  
    **A) All of them**  
    B) May complicate flow control  
    C) May require re-transmits of packets  
    D) May lead to congestion  

* If a client sends a TCP packet \<SYN,SEQ=1000\> to a server, which can be a response packet of the server?  
    A) \<SYN,SEQ=3000\>  
    B) \<SYN,ACK,SEQ=3000,ACK=1000\>  
    C) \<FIN,ACK,SEQ=3000,ACK=1001\>  
    D) All possible  
    **E) \<SYN,ACK,SEQ=1000,ACK=1001\>**  

* Flow control is mechanism of  
    A) IP  
    B) Routing  
    C) UDP  
    **D) TCP**  
    E) HTTP with cookies  

* Even though a root DNS server is defined instead of a local server, your host still can resolve local IP addresses.  
    **A) True** 
    B) False  

* If you use either Telnet or FTP, which is the highest layer you are using to transmit data?  
    **A) Application**  
    B) Physical  
    C) Transport  
    D) Session  
    E) Presentation  

* What is the theoretical limit for the size of a UDP packet in bytes?  
    A) 8192  
    **B) 65535**  
    C) 1024  
    D) 16  
    E) 512

* The time taken by a packet to travel from client to server and then back to the client is called:  
    **A) RTT**  
    B) None of them  
    C) PTT  
    D) STT  

* To deliver a message to the correct application program running on a host, the ___ address must be consulted  
    A) None of them  
    B) MAC  
    **C) PORT**  
    D) IP  

* Which protocol runs on port number 25?  
    A) FTP  
    B) TFTP  
    C) HTTP  
    D) NNTP  
    **E) SMTP** 

* When you run `telnet www.iyte.edu.tr 80` application, it opens a TCP connection to:  
    A) FTP server on www.iyte.edu.tr at port 80  
    **B) HTTP server on www.iyte.edu.tr at port 80**    

* Which bit in TCP header is set to indicate a close-connection request?  
    A) RST  
    B) ACK  
    **C) FIN**  
    D) SYN  
    E) PSH 

* If offset value is 10, the size of TCP header is  
    A) 20  
    B) 4*10-1  
    C) 100  
    **D) 40**  
    E) 10 

* UDP packets are called  
    A) Frames  
    B) Packets  
    **C) Segments**  
    D) User datagrams  

* Port addresses in TCP/IP are  
    A) 4 bit long  
    **B) 16 bit long**  
    C) 32 bit long  
    D) None of them  

* What is the benefit of out-of-order buffering in TCP?  
    A) It increases the window size  
    B) None of them  
    C) It provides reordering of data  
    D) It increases the throughput  
    **E) It decreases the number of retransmissions.**

* What mechanism makes HTTP stateful?  
    **A) Cookies**  
    B) Proxy  
    C) Telnet  
    D) TCP/IP  
    E) Client/Server 

* Which is the main protocol used to access data on the World Wide Web (WWW)?  
    A) SMTP  
    B) SSH  
    C) RIP  
    **D) HTTP**  
    E) FTP 

* Pipelined protocols decrease the network utilization  
    **A) False**  
    B) True  

* Stop-and-wait operation in reliable transmission protocols,  
    A) Has no effect on throughput  
    B) Is implemented in UDP  
    C) Fastens the communication   
    **D) Slows down the server**  

* What does TCP do when congestion occurs?  
    A) It halves the window size  
    B) It decreases the window size a little bit  
    **C) It increases the window size**   
    D) It resumes  
    E) It re-establishes the connection 

* Destination MAC address in ARP query packet is  
    A) 00:00:00:00:00:FF  
    **B) FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF**  
    C) 00:00:00:00:00:00  
    D) MAC address of router's NIC  

* Traditional radio broadcasting uses  
    A) Time Division Multiplexing  
    B) Statistical Division Multiplexing  
    **C) Frequency Division Multiplexing**  
    D) Channel Coding  
    E) None  

* The physical layer concerns with  
    A) Socket to socket delivery  
    B) App to app delivery  
    C) None of the mentioned  
    **D) Bit-by-bit delivery**  

* Switch forwarding is initially empty  
    A) False  
    **B) True**  

* Channel access control technique of 802.3 is
    A) Aloha  
    B) CSMA  
    C) CSMA/CA  
    **D) CSMA/CD**  
    E) Slotted Aloha  

* Electromagnetic waves can travel in the vacuum space  
    A) False  
    **B) True**  

* RSA works properly as long as  
    A) Key is exchanged securely  
    B) Public key is distributed  
    **C) Primality test is hard**  

* How many collision domains are created when you segment a network with a 12-port switch?  
    A) 5  
    B) 1  
    C) 0  
    D) 2  
    **E) 12**  

* Cryptographic hashing is a one-way function  
    **A) True**  
    B) False

* In a network where all IPs are assigned statically, ___ is not needed.  
    A) ARP  
    **B) DHCP**  
    C) Router  
    D) DNS  

* In a typical digitally signed document, which one is encrypted?  
    A) Whole document  
    B) None  
    C) Document and its hash  
    **D) Hash of the document**  

* Link layer is implemented in  
    A) Any of them  
    B) Application  
    C) Operating System  
    D) BIOS  
    **E) Network Interface Card**  

* Cryptographic hash function takes an arbitrary block of data and returns a string of  
    A) Variable size  
    B) None of them  
    C) 128-bit long  
    **D) Fixed size**  

* Switch is a ___ device  
    A) Layer 4  
    **B) Layer 2**  
    C) Layer 3  
    D) Layer 1  

* In which earth orbit, is the gravitational force equal to the centrifugal force?  
    A) Medium earth  
    B) High earth  
    **C) Geostrationary**  
    D) Low earth  
    E) Earth center  

* Which atmosphere layer enables world-wide radio-wave communication?  
    **A) Ionosphere**  
    B) Stratosphere  
    C) Mesosphere  
    D) Troposphere  

* Ethernet is defined by the IEEE standard  
    **A) 802.3**  
    B) 802.15  
    C) 802.11  
    D) 802.2  
    E) 802.1  

* Which does not affect the minimum size of the Ethernet frames?  
    **A) Encoding of data bits**  
    B) Light speed  
    C) Transmission rate  
    D) Length of cable  

* In asymmetric key cryptography, the private key is kept by  
    **A) Receiver**  
    B) Sender  
    C) Sender and Receiver  
    D) All devices in network  

* ___ decomposes any periodic signal or function into the sum of (possibly infinite) sine and cosine functions.  
    A) Nyquist theorem  
    B) QPSK  
    **C) Fourier analysis**  
    D) Shannon theorem  

* Which is not a hash function?  
    A) MD5  
    B) SHA1  
    C) SHA2  
    **D) Bitcoin**  

* Which transmission line coding is used by Ethernet?  
    **A) Manchester**  
    B) Polar RZ  
    C) Bipolar  
    D) Unipolar NRZ  

* Which one of the following task is not done by data link layer?  
    A) Flow control  
    B) Framing  
    **C) Channel coding**  
    D) Error control  

* Which routing algorithm sends the incoming packet out on every outgoing line?  
    A) Distance vector  
    B) OSPF  
    **C) Flooding**  
    D) RIP  
    E) Link-state  

* What is the biggest problem of symmetric cryptography?  
    A) Computation needs  
    **B) Key exchange**  
    C) Weakness of the encryption  
    D) Key sizes  

* It automates the IP configuration, including IP address, subnet mask, default gateway, and DNS info.  
    A) SNMP  
    B) SMTP  
    C) RARP  
    D) ARP  
    **E) DHCP**  

* Router ___  
    A) Connects 2 or more networks  
    B) Runs routing algorithms  
    C) Keeps datagram forwarding table  
    **D) All of them**  

* Which of the following is a private IP address?  
    A) 172.15.14.36  
    B) 12.0.0.1  
    C) 168.172.19.39  
    D) 193.140.248.128  
    **E) 192.168.24.43**  

* The first packet Traceroute sends has a TTL (time-to-live) value of  
    **A) 0**  
    B) 9999  
    C) 1  
    D) Can be any value  

* If traceroute displays "* * *" at some lines, what does this mean?  
    A) Traceroute fails to work  
    B) Destination is unreachable  
    **C) Associated routers do not response to ICMP**  
    D) Response times are high  

* If a router receives a packet having time-to-live parameter as 1, it ___  
    **A) Decrements TTL by 1 and forwards the packet**  
    B) Just forwards the packet  
    C) Disregards this packet  
    D) Increments TTL value by 1  

* Which class of IP address provides a maximum of 254 host addresses per network ID?  
    A) Class B  
    B) Class A  
    **C) Class C**  
    D) Class D  
    E) All classes  

* Key functions of network layer are  
    A) Fragmentation/reassembly  
    B) Forwarding  
    C) Routing  
    **D) Both forwarding and routing**  

* Min. size of IP header in bytes is  
    A) 24  
    B) 40  
    C) 10  
    **D) 20**  

* Which protocol does Ping use?  
    A) BootP  
    **B) ICMP**  
    C) UDP  
    D) TCP  
    E) ARP  

* Which system call or function suspends the process?  
    A) fork()  
    B) read()  
    C) write()  
    D) listen()  
    **E) accept()**  

* Which is not a TCP flag?  
    A) SYN  
    B) FIN  
    C) ACK  
    **D) SND**  
    E) RST  

* TCP window scale factor option is used to  
    A) Reduce the throughput  
    **B) Increase/decrease the window size**  
    C) Increase the window size  

* Which mechanism of TCP prevents a stall in case \<ACK,WND=0\> packet is lost?  
    A) Out-of-order buffering  
    **B) Zero window probing**  
    C) TCP cannot prevent the stall  

* TCP is fair  
    A) False  
    **B) True**  

* Assume packet transmission time in go-back protocol is d and window size is w. Which formula gives link utilization?  
    A) w\*d*RTT  
    B) w*d/RTT  
    **C) w*d/(d+RTT)**  
    D) d/(w*RTT)  
    E) d/(d+RTT)  

* This is not an application layer protocol  
    A) POP3  
    B) SMTP  
    C) FTP  
    D) HTTP  
    **E) TCP**  

* What happens if TCP receives \<ACK,ACK=200,WND=0\> packet?  
    A) It can send a \<FIN\> packet  
    B) All correct  
    **C) It cannot send any more packets**  

* This is a time-sensitive service  
    **A) Internet telephony**  
    B) File transfer  
    C) E-mail  
    D) File download  

* Slow start feature belongs to  
    A) IP  
    **B) TCP**  
    C) UDP   
    D) DHCP  
    E) SMTP  

* On success accept() returns  
    A) Remote port  
    **B) New socket number**  
    C) Null  
    D) Current socket number  
    E) Remote IP  

* HTTP is a stateless protocol  
    A) False  
    **B) True**  

* Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is used to transfer  
    A) Only audio files  
    **B) Only text files**  
    C) Only video files  
    D) Text and image files   
    E) Only image files  

* This is an architecture paradigm  
    **A) Both P2P and Client/Server**  
    B) Client/Server  
    C) P2P  
    D) HTTP  

* Where is a hub specified in the OSI model?  
    A) Network layer  
    B) Session layer  
    C) Application layer  
    **D) Physical layer**  
    E) Data-Link layer  

* Which class of IP address has the most host addresses available by default?  
    **A) Class A**  
    B) Class C  
    C) Class D  
    D) Class B  
    E) All Classes  

* Which of the following services use TCP?  
    A) DHCP, HTTP, and FTP  
    B) DHCP, HTTP, and TFTP  
    C) DHCP and SMTP  
    **D) SMTP, HTTP, and FTP**  
    E) DHCP, SMTP, and TFTP  

* Which protocol uses two active TCP connections?  
    A) SMTP  
    **B) FTP**  
    C) POP3  
    D) HTTP  

* If you use either Telnet or FTP, which is the highest layer you are using to transmit data?  
    **A) Application**    
    B) Presentation   
    C) Session  
    D) Transport  

* How many OSI layers are there?  
    A) 3  
    B) 4  
    **C) 7**  
    D) 6  
    D) 5  

https://www.indiabix.com/networking/tcp-ip/
