# From Zero to Fedora GNOME

Here's a set of instructions to install fedora on a
system the arch way™ with or without dualbooting with windows.

- Boot fedora live from a USB
- Get root with `sudo -s`

**WARNING:** If your system is UEFI, you already have a windows installation, and you don't have an ESP, **STOP RIGHT NOW**, you've installed windows in CSM mode, and you will break your windows installation.
Either work out how to deal with MBR on your own, or backup your important data, disable CSM from your firmware settings, delete everything, reset the partition table, follow the rest of the instructions, then install windows.

## Partitioning

This installation will dual boot with Windows,
so i have this partition table on my SSD on /dev/sda

```text
NAME   MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda      8:0    0 447.1G  0 disk
├─sda1   8:1    0     1G  0 part /boot
├─sda2   8:2    0    96G  0 part /
├─sda3   8:3    0    16M  0 part
└─sda4   8:4    0 350.1G  0 part
sdb      8:16   0 931.5G  0 disk
├─sdb1   8:17   0    16M  0 part
└─sdb2   8:18   0 931.5G  0 part
sdc      8:32   1   7.5G  0 disk
└─sdc1   8:33   1   7.5G  0 part /run/media/glacion/FEDORA-WS-L
```

Some notes:

- I am not using a swap partition.
- I don't have a seperate home partition.
- `/dev/sda1` will be used by both windows and fedora,
  be careful not to format the ESP if you've already installed windows, it's a pain to get windows' bootloader installed again. When asked for partition type, enter `EF00` for ESP partition.

## Filesystems

ESP is vfat, no exceptions. Don't do this unless you don't have a working windows(or any other OS) installation. I had installed windows before so i'll leave ESP as is.

```bash
mkfs.vfat -n ESP /dev/sda1
```

I like to use XFS for my installation filesystem. Use whatever you want, but there's something you need to do which will be noted in a later section.

```bash
mkfs.xfs -L fedora /dev/sda2
```

## Setup

Mount your partitions

```bash
mount /dev/sda2 /mnt
mkdir /mnt/boot
mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/boot
```

...No `/boot/efi`?
Yes, i had prepared my ESP when i was first installing on this computer to be 1G,
windows by default create an 100M ESP partition,
which is enough for both windows,
and kernel, initrd, and bootloader.
But 100M won't be enough if you keep more than 2 kernels if you want to keep multiple kernels installed.

## Bootstrapping Fedora

With everything out of the way,
let's install a bare minimum required for a functioning system. Replace or add to `glibc-langpack-en` if you want localization on your system. Omitting this will cause dnf to install all available langpacks.

```bash
dnf install \
--installroot=/mnt \
--releasever=33 \
--setopt=install_weak_deps=False \
--assumeyes \
systemd dnf glibc-langpack-en vim-minimal sudo passwd
```

## Generating /etc/fstab

Arch Linux has a convenient little tool called `genfstab` that we can use for this.

```bash
wget https://github.com/glacion/genfstab/releases/download/1.0/genfstab
chmod +x genfstab
./genfstab /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab
```

Control `/mnt/etc/fstab` and manually modify if necessary.
I'll remove `/dev/zram0` entry since i don't want swap.

## Installation

Chroot into the container

```bash
systemd-nspawn -D /mnt
```

Create user

```bash
useradd -c "Ahmetcan Güvendiren" -m -G wheel -s /bin/bash glacion
```

Set password for the user

```bash
passwd glacion
```

Exit the chroot with `C-d`

"boot" the newly bootstrapped system.

```bash
systemd-nspawn -bD /mnt
```

Login with your credentials, become root with `sudo`

I'll delete some repositories that i don't use.

```bash
rm -f /etc/yum.repos.d/*{*cisco*,*testing*,*modular*}*
```

I'll disable installation of weak dependencies

```bash
vi /etc/dnf/dnf.conf
```

Append `install_weak_deps=False` to the end of that file, save and exit.

## Bootloader

Install `systemd-udev` package with dnf.

```bash
dnf install systemd-udev
```

You may need to edit `/etc/resolv.conf` if you get an error saying "couldn't resolve host name". Add `nameserver 1.1.1.1` or something to that file and try again.

### Install The Bootloader

```bash
bootctl install
```

...Wait, where's grub? I don't use grub, and i recommend you to not use grub as well unless you have a specific setup. If you want grub, you're on your own.

### Configure Initrd

You need to make dracut know whatever your filesystem is.
Replace xfsprogs with whatever the programs for your root filesystem is. I use LZ4 for compressing my initrd. Omit that if you're fine with it.

```bash
dnf install dracut xfsprogs lz4
vi /etc/dracut.conf.d/bardiche.conf
# Add these to that file
filesystems+=" xfs "
drivers+=" i915 "
compress="lz4"
hostonly="yes"
```

### Install The Kernel

```bash
dnf install kernel
```

### Bootloader Configuration

There's now a bootloader entry at `/boot/loader/entries/${MACHINE_ID}-${KERNEL_VERSION}.conf`

Edit the options section of this file like below

```text
root=UUID=${UUID} ro
```

The root drive's UUID can be acquired with `blkid` tool.

### Network Configuration

```bash
dnf install NetworkManager NetworkManager-wifi NetworkManager-config-connectivity-fedora
```

### Services

I disable some services due to conflicts or them being not necessary

```bash
systemctl disable systemd-homed systemd-resolved NetworkManager-wait-online
```

### Shut Down

Close the chroot with `poweroff`

### Add EFI Entry

Add an EFI entry that points to systemd-boot

```bash
efibootmgr -d /dev/sda -p 1 -c -L "Fedora" -l /EFI/systemd/systemd-bootx64.efi
```

## First Boot

Power off the system, unmount everything, and restart your computer.

### Connecting to Network

Connect to a network with Ethernet or WiFi.

To connect to WiFi using `nmcli` use the following:

```bash
sudo nmcli device wifi connect ${SSID_NAME} password ${PASSWORD}
```

### Install Some Quality of Life Packages

These packages are not required but recommended.

```bash
dnf install rtkit deltarpm zchunk sqlite iputils less bash-completion file rootfiles iproute
```

### Configuration

Configure keymap, hostname, NTP, and system timezone

```bash
localectl set-keymap us
hostnamectl set-hostname bardiche
timedatectl set-ntp true
timedatectl set-timezone Europe/Istanbul
```

### SELinux (Optional)

```bash
dnf install policycoreutils selinux-policy-targeted audit
touch /.autorelabel
reboot
```

This may not work, keep your live usb nearby for failures.

### GNOME

Fedora Workstation installs the group "Fedora Workstation", you can list all available groups with `dnf group list`

Checking what's in Fedora Workstation

```bash
dnf groupinfo "Fedora Workstation"
```

From these subgroups i'll check what's in GNOME group

```bash
dnf groupinfo GNOME
```

From the listed packages i will install some of them:

```bash
dnf install mesa-dri-drivers mesa-libEGL gdm gnome-shell nautilus kitty gnome-screenshot eog file-roller-nautilus avahi gnome-session-wayland-session gnome-settings-daemon gnome-control-center gnome-tweaks
```

After a reboot, GDM will welcome you.

### Fractional Scaling

GNOME supports fractional scaling, my screen is better on 125% so i'll enable that.

```bash
gsettings set org.gnome.mutter experimental-features "['scale-monitor-framebuffer']"
```

Then in settings->displays i selected 125% Scale factor

### RPMFusion

```bash
sudo dnf install https://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm
```

You may want to opt out of nonfree repo of rpmfusion.

### Browser

I use `chromium-freeworld` package from rpmfusion which includes VAAPI support

Setup VAAPI first

```bash
dnf install libva intel-media-driver
vainfo
```

You should see `libva info: va_openDriver() returns 0` in the output.

Now install chromium

```bash
dnf install chromium-freeworld
```
